Hi. I'm
Lucy, and I'm the guidance counselor here
at Port
Elgin Regional School at the lovely Port
Elgin School.
I should say, and today,
I'm here to talk to you
about, classroom circles
and how that fosters positive relationship
building within our school.
So how this practice came about
was I, when I came into guidance,
my role as guidance last year,
the principal, admin approached me
and said, can you go into each class
for half an hour a week
at a specific schedule time
and talk about and do a classroom circle?
So, for example, like grade four,
I go in every Tuesday afternoon
at the very end of the day.
So kids know this is a circle time.
This is the time. This one's coming in.
That helps to build,
positive relationships in our building
because, all adults in
the room are also invited to participate
in the circle when I come in.
So, teachers ease anyone any other adult
that's in in the room
is always invited to participate,
and they get to share their answers, too,
so students can get to know them and
what they like and how they're thinking.
And things like that.
And I use questions
like even simple questions
like, would you rather questions
which can be answered, answered,
and kids get to know stuff that way,
or even other kids in the room.
And yeah, so some tips and tricks.
I start the year
like we get into deeper questions
in class,
some circles like as the year goes on.
But I always start like the first, like September, like those first few weeks, just
no pressure.
Questions. Like simple questions.
Would you rather questions?
Like, what's your favorite questions?
Like your favorite color
or your favorite movie or your favorite?
Oh, know you feel anything
can be anything.
Before
you move on to the deeper questions,
but that that first time, like that
first bit where you're
just getting to know each other,
like really connection.
But you might not know someone else
in your class like Minecraft or whatever.
And then you can can connect on that,
like, oh, I played Minecraft too.
And and I'll explicitly say that before
the circle starts, like, oh, I have some
what's your favorite questions?
And maybe you might find someone else in
the room, has a favorite food
that you also enjoy, and you can connect
on the playground later over that.
Maybe it might be a kid that you haven't
really ever spoken to before.
Wouldn't think to make a connection with.
So I explicitly tell the kids that too.
So hopefully plug
that little seed in my brain that
they can make those connections
if they want to.
And for the younger years, I say it
and they all does too, but they don't.
They don't really do it.
But because like one of my circle
expectations is that only one
person is talking in the younger grades.
If someone shows like, oh,
my favorite, food is pizza,
a lot of the other kids like to be like,
oh, pizza is my favorite too.
So to discourage that, so like,
so that there's only one voice,
the person who's holding the talking piece
in the circle, we have a little like,
oh yeah, me too kind of thing.
So they don't have to say it.
They can just do a little hand signal
and and everyone else
the students love, love, love hearing
what the teachers get to say,
especially the would you rather questions.
They really just like, oh, you know, like,
oh, I won't say those, but like, oh, Mr.
Bob, he's coming.
He's coming
up. Like, what's he going to say?
I like they really, really crave
that wanting to get to know
like what the teacher is going to say.
And you have to share everything too
personal.
Like we don't expect the kids
to share extremely personal things
from their lives, but it's nice
when the teachers model that vulnerability
and it kind of helps the students see,
oh, like, my teacher's a human too.